Initially, this setup of the notochord.
We then studied the ectoderm,
with its associated mesoderm,
the importance of this supporting tissue,
which was rather here, so the intermediate tissue.
Then we studied the entire vitelline system,
which was our entire digestive system.
We also started to study these lateral plates a bit,
with the peritoneum, the somatopleure, the splan...
We  studied  the  entire  lateral  plate,  which  was  the  entire  system,  finally,  kidney,  adrenal
and  the  genital  system  of  this  somatic  plate,
induced  both  by  the  epiblastic  level,  by
the  notochordal  level  and  by  the  neural  tube  type  level,
will  define  a  reorganization  of  this  plate  in  the  form  of
what  we  call...
The dermatome, so everything that will be on the skin.
The myotome, that will be all the muscles.
And the sclerotome will be the vertebral axis.
Fascia is in the intermediate system.
It's in what we call here all the tissue that will be around.
But they will be integrated by my myotome, which is muscular.
In fact, you have to understand that you have your connective tissue
and  there  will  be  metabolic  fields  that  will  be  fields  of  dilation  and  fields  of  retention.
And the speed between these systems will reorganize the entire system.
It's  a  balance,  if  you  will,  between  the  establishment  of  the  bone  and
the  muscle.
And  between  the  two,  you  have  another  field  that  appears,  which  is  a  field  of  retention,  which  will  be  a
fascial  field.
My  notochord  which  will  influence  the  establishment  of  my
neural  tube,
and this influence of my neural tube will organize.
reorganize,  reorganize  the  entire  somitic  mesodermal  structure  on  either  side
of  the  neural  tube.
So we can say that it's Manotocor that creates this differential growth rate
within the peripheral and central part of the neural plate
which will form a groove.
And  in  this  groove  process,  there  will  be  a  whole  specific  reorganization
of cells that will organize microscopically.
with induction factors to form the different parts of the somites.
Do you remember the rapprochement of my aortas
which influenced the exorotation movement of my kidneys?
At  the  same  time,  it  will  also  affect  the  establishment  of  this  somatic  system.
From my neural tube, these are small cells.
Don't forget, a tissue is made of cells.
And cells are made of what? Of molecules.
And molecules are made of what?
of  atoms  and  so  we  have  in  fact  all  this  combination  and  when  we  talk
of
genetic factors I am on what molecular level and if it is the
releases of cells that will release
new  types  of  proteins  in  the  form  of  molecular  enzymes  of  the  type
genetic  such  as  fgh8  like  sonetic  and
which  will
give the inductions and create the ligands
and the information to reorganize the system.
The  force  comes  from  the  outside,  it's  the  movement  that  will  give  the  reaction  to
the  inside.
So genes are not the engine, but they are the support for development.
It's an epigenetic force.
And at the moment when my aortas come together,
by  this  differential  growth  rate  with  this
movement  of  the  aortas  approaching,
I start to have an opening, like that, you see,
a kind of movement here.
The cells, which were somewhat encapsulated, somewhere,
you see, suddenly...
A  part  that  will  form  at  the  periphery  by  phenomena
of  induction,
because don't forget, here, I have an epiblast,
well, there will be molecular phenomena that will occur here,
which means that this part of the somite will...
will  become  what  we  call  the  dermatome.
The  part  that  will  be  here  will  come  towards  the  notochord,
you see, towards my notochord,
to form the sclerotome.
Sclerotome,  it  will  form  among  other  things  the  intervertebral
discs,
and...
I  will  have  the  entire  vertebra  that  will  be  drawn  up  to  the  level  of
the  spinous  process  which
will  in  fact  be  organized  by  this  sclerotome
coming  from  the  somite  and  then  another  part  which
is  here  intermediate  which  will  follow  another  path  which
will  be  what  we  call  the  myotome  from
which will derive all the system
the  muscles.  Dermatome,  myotome,  sclerotome.  In
this  process  of  setting  up  my  somites,
I  also  have  a  phenomenon  called  segmentation.  Here,  I  start  to
have
somites appearing. But we see that these somites are not just a tube, they become
a  kind  of  small  balls  like  that,  on  either  side.  This  happens  when
the  embryo
starts to lengthen.
That is, I need a neural tube to develop.
It is the neural tube that will induce.
But  don't  forget  that  at  that  moment,  I  already  have  a  phase  that  is  setting  in
with,  you  remember,  the  integration  of  the  entire  vascular  system.
And  among  other  things,  I  had  this  polarization  system
where  I  had  my  ectodermal  system.
So,  for  the  neural  tube,  which  was  already,  in
a  field  of  assimilation,
at the same time starting to create spaces.
So,  it  is  the  vascular  system  that  is  at  the  origin  of  segmentation,
and not the neuronal system as described.
First,  I  need  the  neuronal  system,  then  it  will  organize  the  vascular  system,
and from this neuronal system will release.
the  venous  system  will  emerge.  Primary  segmentation  appears,  as  it
is  very  well
described  by  Blechschmidt,  by  in  fact  a  region,  you  see  here,  that  develops
in  the  form
of  space  and  fragmentation  of  the  system  to  first  form  the  process
of  segmentation
of  the  embryo,  what  we  call  the  somites  that  will  develop.  The  embryo
will  have
all what we call the dermalgia zones.
And  it's  a  segmentation,  the  somites  segment,  you  see,  it's
metamerized  if  you  will,  which  comes  from  the  segmentation  of
the  somatic  column  organized  by  the  vascular  system  on  a  primitive  plane,
by  the  flexion  and  resorption  of  the  aorta.
It's  arterial  but  in  fact  at  that  level  it's  venous  sinuses,  so  we'll  mostly  say  it's  vascular.
Because at first, it's not really defined as arterial or venous yet.
It's a field of assimilation and disassimilation.
But  don't  forget  that  this  longitudinal  growth  is  allowed  by  aspiration.
So in fact, what it will do is polarity.
And  then,  as  it  gets  bigger,  it  will  form  what  is  called  the  ectodermal
ring.
I have the embryo, it's like this.
We are only just starting to see the first two or three segmentations.
And it's this.
when  I  will  have  the  flexion  movement  which  has  an  acceleration,  the  blood  will
start  to  be  placed
like  this  in  the  spaces  that  are  created.  Each  level  will  start  to  create  what  are  called
the  somites.  There  are  33  pairs  that  will  develop  here.  It's  an  absorption  by
the
vascular  system  which  is  linked  to  a  polarity  between  the  ectoderm  and
the  mesoderm.  So  it's  the  polarity
that makes each
each  space  must  be  nourished  separately  I  cannot  bring
a  vessel  that  is  like  that
no  between  it  starts  to  do  like  that  it's  the  vessels  that
create  the  space  between  the  myotome  and
the  sclerotome  it's  the  bone  that  grew  and  pulls  on  the  myotome
after  it's  the  muscle  so
I  have  an  inversion  at  the  beginning  the  bone  is  fluid  and  grows  when  it  pulls
and  lengthens
well,  that  creates  a  metabolic  field  around  it  which  is  a  field  of  dilation.
It is the bone that will become active first.
And then it will only be the muscle that will be active in a second time.